>> Brian Holt: So I'm gonna show you
another one with input tag, right?
So something that I can type into and
we're gonna be listening to key up events,
okay?
So key up event, as you might
imagine is when I press the key,
there is a key down event.
And then as soon as I released the key up,
there is a key event, okay, and
listening to the key up event.
So if I type in here and
say, typing something.
>> Brian Holt: As soon as I let up
my fingers, if I would like hold
my finger here, notice that it's not gonna
do anything until I let my finger up.
>> Brian Holt: Reason being
if I did key down on here,
it would capture the event before
the typing had been registered.
So I would be always one character behind,
but
sometimes that's what you want.
So that just depends.
So if you look, trying to listen to
inputs, you'll listen for key up events.
And here I'm just saying, paragraph and
I'm saying the inner text is
assign the input.value, right?
So the input.value which
this input is this,
it's the input to copy to which is
referring to this one right here.
Whatever the person has typed into
it will always be captured inside
input.value here.
>> Brian Holt: Or we actually could
have done it this way, as well.
So this takes in an event right here,
right, and then I could have said
event.target.value.
So the wherever the event is happening,
right?
So in this case, the event
happens on this input right here.
I can pull that off here off the event.
So that's what the event.target is, right?
It's where the event
actually ended up happening.
So it would be the input
in this particular case and
then I wouldn't have to
have this part at all.
>> Brian Holt: And here I would say,
documents.getelement or querySelector.
QuerySelector was it called
input-to-copy, input-to-copy.
>> Brian Holt: So now if I type that.
>> Brian Holt: That's weird, console.
Part of that paragraph,
either so console.log('event').
>> Brian Holt: Paragraph is not defined.
>> Brian Holt: Let's figure
out what's going on with that.
>> Brian Holt: Paragraph right there,
copy.
There we go.
So now if it coming here,
it still is working.
There we go, okay?
>> Brian Holt: So that's another way you
can do it is using this event right here,
event.target.value.
In fact,
you'll probably see that quite frequently.
>> Brian Holt: Cuz what's nice.
In fact, what I'm gonna show you,
I think on the next one.
Nope, the second to last one is
you can use one event listener for
multiple different downloads.
Right now,
we have a one-to-one relationship.
We have one event listener for
one element like one tag, right?
But we can actually use one event
listener for many tags as well,
which is pretty cool.
So it makes sense that whatever is getting
typed into here is getting copied into
this paragraph tag, right?
And we're doing that by just
overwriting the inner text here with
the event.target.value
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so
next thing here we're gonna
be doing a change event.
So a change event is like I've
typed something into an input.
I'm not listening to the key up anymore.
I'm listening for
I've typed something in here.
When the user then unfocuses that input,
it's going to fire a change event.
It's something changed, right?
So notice if I type here like Peru,
my favorite color, it hasn't changed yet,
right, because I'm still focused.
You can see the blue outline there.
That means I'm still
focused on that input.
However, if I click over here,
it's gonna change the color right away.
That's when the change event
actually ends up happening.
>> Brian Holt: So this is useful for
thing like validation, right?
Like imagine that you're
building a form and
someone's filling out like
their email address, right?
You wanna make sure that they
have a valid email address.
So as soon as there's a change event,
you'll go through and
make sure it's like is
do they have an ad sign?
Do they have like a dot com or
dot CEO or net afterwards, right?
You can do all that validation
on the change event.
That's when that's gonna be useful to you.
>> Brian Holt: There's also rebeccapurple.
That's another favorite one.
>> Brian Holt: Or mediumaquamarine.
Think that's a color, it is.
In case you're wondering that was medium
aquamarine is, it's my favorite interview
question to ask someone what's
their favorite names CSS color.
If they say Peru, they just get the job.
[LAUGH]